OKR Learning Path
-----------------

Set yourself ambitious goals (objectives) and define tangible results
(key results) can be very motivating. Many people have a long
man-to-be-painting list, but they don\'t get it right. The longer the
list, the bigger the hurdle to tackle. Google therefore uses the simple
Objectives & Key Results (OKR) method, which defines the goals of the
next three months according to the [following
criteria:](https://rework.withgoogle.com/guides/set-goals-with-okrs/steps/introduction/)

-   Objectives are demanding and can feel a bit uncomfortable.

-   Key results are measurable on a scale of 0 - 1.0 (or 0-100%).

-   OKRs are transparent so everyone can see what others are working on.

-   The optimal degree of achievement is 60-70%. If you always achieve
    your goals 100%, your OKRs are not ambitious enough and you should
    set yourself higher goals.

-   A low level of achievement should be seen as a learning opportunity
    for the next OKRs.

-   In companies, OKRs are NOT(!) used for performance assessment
    purposes.

-   OKRs are not a shared to-do list.

With the following Katas, you can learn OKRs for setting your own goals
in a sprint. It doesn\'t matter if you\'re in an organization or a
company that\'s already using OKR, or whether you\'re just using OKRs
for yourself.

### Top 10 Sources of OKRs (Kata)

**Learn about the history and basics of Objectives & Key Results
(OKRs).**

***Duration:** 60 minutes*

The history of OKRs goes back several decades. In 1975, John Doerr took
part in a training course at Intel in which Andy Grove explained the
theory of OKRs (book tip: [High Output
Management](https://amzn.to/2O9sA4u)). In1999, John Doerr worked for the
venture capital company Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, which had just
joined the startup. Google had invested. The OKR method then reached
Google. In the foreword to Doerr\'s book [Measure What Matters: OKRs:
The Simple Idea that Drives 10x Growth,](https://amzn.to/2XVI1Bv) Google
founder Larry Page describes the effect of OKRs as:

> OKRs have helped lead us to 10x growth, many times over. They\'ve
> helped make our crazily bold mission of \'organizing the world\'s
> information\' perhaps even achievable. They\'ve kept me and the rest
> of the company on time and on track when it mattered the most.

In the following, I have compiled some sources with which you can
familiarize yourself with the method. Find out materials from the
following list and learn the basics of OKRs:

1.  **Set Goals with OKRs** (en) - if you choose only one source, take
    it! Google describes on about 10 pages how they understand and use
    OKRs for agile goal planning.

2.  **OKR** (en) - English Wikipedia page on OKRs with many web links
    and sources. More information in other Wikipedia language versions
    is available via the voice switching in the left sidebar.

3.  **How Google sets goals: OKRs** (en) - Video recording (1 hour 22
    minutes) of a Startup Lab workshop with Rick Klau of Google
    Ventures, in which Rick also shows original slides by John Doerr.

4.  **Introduction to OKRs** (en)- 37-page introduction to OKR by
    Christina Wodtke (\[\@cwodtke\](https://twitter.com/cwodtke)) with
    the story and concrete tips for starting with OKRs.

5.  **The Beginner\'s Guide to OKR** - 50-page introduction to OKRs by
    Felipe Castro (\[\@meetfelipe\](https://twitter.com/meetfelipe))
    with many examples and concrete tools for action.

6.  **Objectives and Key Results: The Book** (en) - 31-page eBook by
    Alexander Maasik (\[\@AMaasik\](https://twitter.com/AMaasik)) with
    basics on OKRs and examples from the weekdone software .

7.  **Objectives and Key Results** (en) - White Paper by Ben Lamorte ()
    Operator of the website [okrs.com](https://okrs.com).

8.  [**Giant Talk
    Podcast**](https://www.therebegiants.com/the-official-okr-podcast)
    (en) - Podcast on the OKRs of There Be Giants, an OKR consultancy
    from the UK.

9.  **OKR Community Report 2017** (en) - Survey conducted by the
    Workpath Institute with over 300 participants and case studies by
    HolidayCheck, MyMuesli and Flixbus.

10. **OKRs and digital organizations** (en) - Introduction to OKRs by
    [workpath](https://workpath.com), an OKR software provider from
    Munich.

### Set up your OKR environment (Kata)

**Plan time and space for your OKR process.**

***Duration:** 30 minutes*

It doesn\'t take much for your personal OKR environment. You need to
schedule weekly check-in time in the calendar each week (e.g. Monday
morning, 30 minutes). You also need a place to document your OKRs. This
location can be analog (e.g. paper, whiteboard) or digital (e.g.
OneNote, Wiki). You have to decide whether or not to make your OKRs
public the first time. Keep in mind that the smaller the circle of
people who know your goals, the less can help you achieve your goals.

Set your OKR environment now:

-   **OKR Weekly Check-in (weekday, time):** \...

-   **OKR Documentation:** \...

### Design OKRs for your Sprint (Kata)

**Write down your objective and key results for this sprint in OKR
format.**

***Duration:** 30 minutes*

In the last week you (hopefully) learned a lot about the formulation of
OKRs. Now you can apply this to the target planning for the running
sprint. To do this, use John Doer\'s OKR formula to formulate your goal:

*I want (objective): \...\...\.... measured by \...\...\.... (Key
Results):*

Check your **objective** against the following criteria (source:
[Google):](https://rework.withgoogle.com/guides/set-goals-with-okrs/steps/set-objectives-and-develop-key-results/)

-   The objective is demanding and feels a bit uncomfortable.

-   The Objective uses phrases that trigger new activities (not: keep,
    continue).

-   The Objective uses phrases that describe a final state (e.g. \"climb
    the mountain\", \"ship feature Y\").

-   The Objective uses tangible and unambiguous terms. It should be
    clear to an outsider whether a goal has been achieved or not.

Check your **key results** against the following criteria:

-   Pro Objective is defined by no more than three key results.

-   The key results express measurable milestones that bring you closer
    to the goal when you reach it.

-   The key results are measurable and can be measured on a scale of
    0.0 - 1.0 (or 0 - 100%) measured.

-   The key results express results, not activities. The wording of a
    key result should not include words such as \"advice,\" \"help,\"
    \"analyze,\" or \"participate.\"

-   Measurable milestones should include proof of completion, and this
    evidence should be visible, credible and easily comprehensible.

If you make the OKR learning path in a learningOS Circle, then discuss
the OKRs in the Circle and give each other feedback.

### Finalize your OKRs for the Sprint (Kata)

**Check your OKRs for the sprint and set yourself.**

***Duration:** 30 minutes*

You\'ve had a few nights to rethink your OKRs. Do you feel comfortable
and motivated by it? Do the objectives feel demanding? You see a
realistic chance of achieving the key results at 60-70%. Rethink your
OKRs and set yourself up for this learningOS Sprint. Then document the
OKRs in the OKR environment as you pre-defined them.

If you\'re doing the OKR learning path in a learning circle, imagine the
final OKRs and talk about ways to achieve goals. This shows how
different the approaches of the different people can be.

### Perform your Weekly Check-In (Kata)

**Start with a short OKR Weekly check-in every week**

***Duration:** 30 minutes*

With the OKR Weekly Check-in you can see your goals and the current
state of play on a weekly basis. This helps you not to lose sight of
your goals and to identify and remove obstacles early.

You have already set the time of your check-in and are the regular date
in the calendar. Usethe followingQuestionsfor THE OKR Weekly Check-in:

-   **Progress:** What has changed in key results since last Weekly?

-   **Trust:** How sure am I to achieve the key results?

-   **Barriers:** What hinders my progress?

-   **Next steps:** What can I do to improve progress?

Use the next four weeks to make check-in a weekly routine. Every week,
you\'ll learn about additional topics around OKRs in a small 15-minute
learning bag.

When you make the OKR learning path in a learning circle, share how you
organize your weeklys and what experiences you have with the process.

### Tools for OKRs (Kata)

**Learn some tools for OKRs.**

***Duration:** 15 minutes*

David Allen often describes Getting Things Done (GTD) as
\"tool-agnostic\". This means that you can practice GTD independently of
special software or apps. Similarly, okrs, paper and pencil are enough,
yet many practitioners use digital tools for it. Check out examples of
OKR tools this week and decide if you want to use them:

-   **Text veristion**, e.g. Microsoft Word, Google Doc

-   **Spreadsheet**, e.g. Microsoft Excel, Google Sheets

-   **Note applications**, such as Microsoft OneNote, Evernote

-   **To-do list tools**, e.g. Trello, Microsoft To-Do, Microsoft
    Planner, Jira

-   **Wikis**, e.g. Mediawiki, Confluence, TiddlyWiki, Etherpad

-   **Enterprise OKR-Tools**, e.g. 7Geese, WeekDone, Workpath

When you make the OKR learning path in a learningOS Circle, share the
experiences with your OKR environments and possible other tools to try
out.

### Scoring vs. Measuring Key Results (Kata)

**Understand the difference between \"scoring\" and \"measuring\" and
choose your path.**

***Duration:** 15 minutes*

Google recommends that OKRs always measure key results on a scale of
0-1.0. In his [Beginners Guide to
OKR,](https://felipecastro.com/resource/The-Beginners-Guide-to-OKR.pdf)
Felipe Castro describes some of the drawbacks of this approach under the
heading \"Forget Scoring\":

-   The rating on the scale from 0 - 1.0 is very subjective

-   If you want to define in advance per key result, which means 0.3,
    0.7 etc., the complexity of the process increases

Therefore, in the chapter, Felipe recommends using value-based key
results and measuring them easily. In his opinion, this simplifies the
process of defining OKRs for oneself and also for teams.

Check out your key results and consider whether the process would be
simplified for you by simply measuring instead of scoring on the 0-1.0
scale. Choose an approach and adjust your key results if necessary.

When you make the OKR learning path in a learning OS Circle, you can
exchange ideas about who chose which path and for what reasons. In the
following weeks you can talk about the effects and experiences again and
again.

### Stretch Goals and Moonshots (Kata)

**Learn the importance of \"Strech Goals\" for setting challenging
goals.**

***Duration:** 15 minutes*

Strech Goals or Moonshot OKRs (derived from Kennedy\'s Moonshot Goal
1962) are targets that seem impossible to achieve. For example, you
can\'t ask yourself \"How do I get 10% better/faster?\" but \"How do I
get better/faster by a factor of 10\". This forces you to leave your
comfort zone and think about other practices, skills and other know-how.

Look at your goals and think about what you could make Moonshot OKRs
from and what the consequences would be for you. If you want to try
Moonshot OKRs, decide whether you want to customize the OKRs for this or
a subsequent sprint.

When you make the OKR learning path in a learningOS Circle, discuss your
ideas and assessments about Moonshot OKRs.

### What is your Confidence Level? (Kata)

**How sure are you that you will reach your OKRs?**

***Duration:** 15 minutes*

According to Henrik-Jan van der Pol by perdoo, the [OKR Confidence
Level](https://www.perdoo.com/blog/okr-confidence-levels/) shows how
much you believe that the OKR is (still) achievable. Henrik-Jan proposes
the three levels \"on-track\", \"off-track\" and \"at-risk\". The
estimate of an OKD confidence level is also presented by Christina
Wodtke in the book Introduction to
[OKRs.](https://www.oreilly.com/business/free/files/introduction-to-okrs.pdf)
She recommends a scale of 1-10, with a 1 saying \"a miracle would have
to happen\" and a 10 \"Yeah, I can do that\".

Check out the two sources and decide if you want to appreciate
Confidence Levels for your OKRs. If so, consider where and when to put
them in your documentation.

When you make the OKR learning path in a learningOS Circle, discuss your
decisions about the OKR Confidence Levels.

### Individual vs. Team/Organizational OKRs (Kata)

**Get to know the interaction of OKRs at the levels of the individual,
team and organization.**

***Duration:** 30 minutes*

As well described in Rick Klau\'s [How Google sets goals:
OKRs](https://youtu.be/mJB83EZtAjc?t=1061) video, OKRs are defined not
only at the individual level, but also at the level of teams,
departments, and the entire organization. In contrast to other target
agreement systems such as Management by
[Objectives](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Management_by_Objectives)
(MbO), however, this is not a top-down process, but is both top-down
(recommendation John Doerr: 40%) and bottom-up (recommendation John
Doerr: 60%).

Consider whether you can use the method in your environment, such as
your team or department, in addition to your personal OKRs. Consider at
least one measure to test whether your environment is open to OKRs and
how to implement it there.

When you make the OKR learning path in a learningOS Circle, discuss your
approaches to spreading OKRs in the organization and learn from each
other.

### OKR Review (Kata)

**Was your OKR cycle successful and what topics are the next?**

***Duration:** 60 minutes*

In Scrum, the [Sprint
Review](https://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html#events-review) is
used to check the results (increments) at the end of the sprint
(Inspect) and adjust them for the next sprint (Adapt) if necessary. In
Scrum, the review is different from the [Sprint
Retrospective,](https://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html#events-retro)
which is about team interaction, not results.

Franziska Schneider from Workpath [suggests in a
blog](https://www.workpath.com/magazine/wie-sie-einen-effektiven-okr-zyklus-gestalten/)to
make a review at the end of an OKR cycle and ask yourself the
followingquestions:

-   Was I successful with my OKRs?

-   What are the topics for the next OKR cycle?

-   Where can/should I present the results of the review?

Now perform an OKR review for the current sprint and document the
results.

If you make the OKR learning path in a learningOS Circle, discuss your
review results.

GTD Learning Path
-----------------

Organizing and
[optimizing](https://lexikon.stangl.eu/19425/selbstoptimierung/)
yourself and your way of working can be very motivating. Many people
today face the problem of sinking into the hamster wheel of dayand
routine work and not having time for value-adding things, let alone
thinking about where they want to develop in the medium to long term.

All elements of GTD have been used successfully for a long time. David
Allen has compiled and combined some of these methods in such a way that
the effect is greater than the sum of his parts.

GTD is a way to create the space in our [VUCA
world](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/VUCA) to make us fit for the
future.

**The challenge:** You must have read the
[book](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/3492307205/ref=as_li_tl) to
really understand it.

**The solution:** By gradually appropriating the rules and principles,
as well as their practice (KATA) within the next 12 weeks, you
understand the overall context and gradually build up your individual
**GTD system.**

### Get to know the basics (Kata)

***Duration:** 2-3 hours depending on reading speed, reading depth and
available/missing materials*

The basics of GTD are documentary in many places on the Internet & in
literature. Get acquainted with the basics of GTD this week and create
an environment that puts you in an optimal situation. This environment
is based on the three pillars of time, location and tools.
ThePillarTimetreatwe later.

-   Read Chapters 1, 2 & 4 in David Allen\'s book [\"How to Get Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Carry together your work material (storage baskets, pens, folders,
    sticky note slips, etc.)

-   Reposition your /your workspace(s) (Office / Home / \...)

**ProTip:**

-   Minimize the number of your inbound baskets; 1x Office, 1x Home, 1x
    electronic (eMail)

-   e-mails generally remain: in the e-mail system and are managed
    digitally there

-   Forward and manage all other electronic inputs to the e-mail system

-   Often throwingsomething away

-   Active deactivation of newsletters, mail distributors, mailing
    stations, etc.

### Collect - Mind Sweep (Kata)

***Duration:** 1-2 hours depending on reading speed & number of \"loose
ends\" in the head*

You\'re probably carrying a lot of things around with you in your head,
and new ones are coming in all the time. All these loose ends strain
your ability to focus and get things done. The following exercise will
help you rid your head of it without anything being forgotten.

-   Read Chapter 5 in David Allen\'s book [\"How to Get Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Now write down **everything** that goes through your mind. What to
    do now & soon? What needs to be donenow? Who is to call \.....

-   One page per idea or task (the heading is sufficient)

-   Put each sheet in your inbox

In this exercise, the mass counts. Don\'t stop until nothing comes.

### Processing - The 2 minute rule (Kata)

***Duration:** 1 - 1.5 hours depending on reading speed and number of
small items*

This week you will work your entrance and consistently apply the
2-minute rule (everything that has to be done in less than 2 minutes is
done immediately). You apply the rule both when working through your
inbox, as well as

-   Read Chapter 6 in David Allen\'s book [\"How to Get Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Take 10-15 minutes a day for \"small stuff\"

-   Work focuses on everything from answer emails, appointments, tweets,
    likes, feedback, callbacks, etc.

-   Unimportant is disposed of
    immediately[(TimeTimer](https://www.timetimer.com/) helps with
    timeboxing)

### Organize - Build Lists & Contexts (Kata)

***Duration:** 1-2 hours depending on reading speed and deepening urge*

When organizing your tasks with GTD, you have the greatest degree of
individuality. Here you can organize a lot, but also a minimum set of
lists & contexts will support you very much to keep track.

-   Read Chapter 7 in David Allen\'s book [\"How to Get Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Choose the list types you want to use (minimum: project list, action
    list, calendar and wait-for list). Important but non-essential lists
    (reference material, one-day/maybe, support material for actions,
    support material for projects)

-   Define the contexts you want to use in the future (e.g.: \@Home,
    \@Work, \@Unterwegs, \@Besorgungen, \@Internet, \@Anruf, next
    action, \@Lesen \...)

No matter which subset of lists and contexts you work with, it will help
you keep track.

An example: Do you commute regularly by train to work and back? Then you
can easily \@Unterwegs all your tasks according to the contexts, filter
\@Lesen and only get those that make sense when commuting.

**ProTip:** At the beginning, less is more. Start with a few but
essential things. In the iteration phases (from week 8) the things you
are missing are automatically added.

Context lists do not really serve productivity directly, but the
**systematic postponement of things that are important but not
urgent.**Postponing is a sensible tactic to do important things later,
because you can\'t do it right now.

### Review - The Weekly Review (Kata)

***Duration:** 1-2 hours depending on reading speed and deepening urge*

The browse phase in GTD has a slightly different character than the
previous phases. It is mainly used to keep your system in tune and is
therefore the heart of the system. You will only be able to rely on your
system if you go through this phase regularly & promptly

In addition to regular brief views of your system, the weekly review is
at the heart of this phase.

-   Read Chapter 8 in David Allen\'s book [\"How to Get Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Find a suitable date for the weekly review & enter it as a repeating
    appointment in your calendar (1-2 hours should be already)

-   Play the weekly review once for the last week

    1.  **Everything** in the inbox (which you haven\'t put there until
        then)

    2.  Empty the entrance

    3.  **See** through next steps

    4.  Browse through the dates (Did ToDo\'s come out of it for you?)

    5.  See through upcoming dates (Are ToDo\'s included for you in
        preparation for the appointment?)

    6.  **Wait-on-browse list**

    7.  Browse the list of projects

    8.  **Mind Sweeping**

**ProTip:** To make the weekly review as pleasant as possible, connect
it to things that are pleasant and fun for you. For example, your
favorite drink, favorite place, favorite music or your favorite time.

A special feature for you is that you achieve the same goal with your
current learningOS Circlers. Find a partner, because together a lot goes
a lot more simple.

### Done (Kata)

***Duration:** 2-4 hours depending on reading speed*

At this stage, we choose what to do. Two basic principles will support
you in this. AThird partieslearnsyou know in week 10.

-   **Four criteria for completing tasks**. Filtering tasks (by
    context/time/energy/priority)

-   **The three-stage model for evaluating daily work**. Subdivision
    into the three types of work (define tasks / predefined tasks /
    unplanned tasks)

-   Read Chapter 9 (Without the 6-step model) in David Allen\'s book
    [\"How to Get Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Choose a day that you want to consciously work on the Complete phase

-   Consider all three types of work for your**scheduling**

    -   Plan time for several daily reviews (overview)

    -   Schedule time for \"Organize & Process\"

    -   Schedule time for completing scheduled tasks (enter appointments
        with yourself in the calendar - blocker)

    -   Schedule time for completing unplanned tasks (leave air in the
        calendar)

-   Your day is planned - Then get an overview of the upcoming tasks and
    let go

**ProTip:** Your calendar day should NEVER be fully planned. 20% buffer
for unplanned tasks is a good guideline

When you make appointments with others, they always plan **5 minutes
shorter** (e.g.: 25\' instead of 30\' or 55\' instead of 60\' )

### Projects - Become like the kids (Kata)

***Duration:** 1-3 hours depending on reading speed, number of projects
& project size*

Projects have their own narrow definition in GTD. Anything that takes
**more than one step** to be completed AND done within a year is called
a project. In the process, projects are somewhat more complex tasks, one
after the other and/or in parallel. Therefore, it is important to get an
idea of the target state and to go through the \"whole\" project at the
beginning.

-   Read Chapter 3 &10 in David Allen\'s book [\"How to Get Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Watch the video [\"If you don\'t become like the
    children\"](https://youtu.be/qkDWzHJZtHs) by Dr. Joachim
    Schlosser.[BlogArticles.](https://www.schlosser.info/5-schritte-zu-natuerlicher-projektplanung-nach-gtd/)

-   Work through a new or existing project according to these rules and
    transfer the results to your GTD system

As promised in the past, we are devoting time to the Pillar at this
point. In preparation for the following weeks, please schedule these
dates & appointment series firmly in your calendar:

-   One-time: 2-3 hours for Kata 08 - Desk-Sweep

-   1-2 daily very short appointments (05-15 minutes) for \"Process &
    Organize\"

-   1 appointment weekly review (90-120 minutes) -\> If not already done
    in Kata 05

-   Collecting is a passant or is part of the weekly review

**ProTip**: As a rule, 80% of projects consist of the Results & Next
Steps steps, 15% of projects from the Brainstorming & Results & Next
Steps steps, and 5% of projects from steps 1-5.

### Work through the 5 phases (Kata)

***Duration:** 2-4 hours*

You have dealt intensively with the individual 5 phases of GTD in the
last 7 weeks. You\'ve got all the necessary materials, set up your
workplace, set up your individual system, prepared lists & contexts and
practiced the weekly review and know how to identify the next step

Now, in theory, you know everything you need to know to get the **whole
process going.** Every single phase in itself is important, but only as
a closed circuit will the process unfold its full potential for you.

You\'re ready! Starting this week, we\'ll get the whole system up and
running. Continue to work through the 5 phases of GTD this week.

**Initial - Desk Sweep**

-   Now you start to put everything around your workplace to a very
    simple exam. Take EVERY thing in your hand and ask The One Question:
    Can this go away?

-   If so, dispose of it immediately, otherwise put it in your inbox.

-   Repeat this process until everything has gone through your slopes.
    Moreisnottodo.

-   Tip: Start locally (on the square) and expand your searches for
    stuff & things in a concentric way (desk surface, drawers, storage
    areas, cabinets, floors & shelves, etc.).

Then go through phases 1-5 iteratively again and again.

### The Power of the Next Step (Kata)

***Duration:** 2-3 hours depending on reading speed & number of
projects*

In David Allen\'s estimation, the question is **\"What is the next
step?\"**the essential key question to generate measurable improvements
in the process. This question forces clarity, competence, productivity
and increased competence.

-   Read Chapters 11, 12 & 13 in David Allen\'s book [\"How to Get
    Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Verse all the tasks to be done next in your lists with the context
    \"NextAction\"

-   Ask the question **\"What is the next step?\"**into your daily
    routines

Iterate the 5 phases again this week -\> If it works, keep doing it. If
it doesn\'t work, customize your system.

**ProTip: Consider whether you always want to** add additional
attributes when creating a new task. E.g. time required or energy
required. This will help you decide in Phase 5 what is important NOW.

**ProTip:** If possible, always formulate your (project) tasks from the
result: \"The auto-inspection is carried out\", \"The project has been
accepted\", \"The board has decided X or Y\".

### The 6-horizon model (Kata)

***Duration:** 1-3 hours depending on reading speed & altitude*

A third model, besides the **\"Four Criteria\"** and the **\"Three
Steps\"** from the Kata \"Complete\", can help us to reflect our own
work even better. Assuming that we have a firm grip on levels 0-2
(actions, projects and areas of responsibility) through the consistent
application of our GTD system, we will focus on levels 3-5 (future
factors, orientations and intentions).

We should do this reperated, but at least once a year.

-   Read Chapter 9 (The 6-Step Model) in David Allen\'s book [\"How to
    Get Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Check out Claudia Schramm\'s leaflet on the metaphor of altitude

-   Start thinking about what goals you want to set for the next 1-2
    years. WriteeachIdeaauf a leaf

-   Then focus on a time horizon that is 3-5 years in the future. Where
    do you want to be, where will your company be, what external
    influences will directly or indirectly affect you. WriteeachIdeaon a
    Blatt

-   Finally, consider what sense your existence had and should have had
    in a time much further than 5 years in the future. WriteeachIdeaon a
    sheet.

-   Process the notes and decide if there\'s something you really,
    really want to get going. Ifnot, disposalthe idea.

-   Decide on the ideas that are left over, what you want to do with it.
    Such as.

    -   Create a new project

    -   On the list One day / Maybe put

    -   Work out even more ideas for the future (with a partner or
        friend)

    -   Ask ideas with other parts & for feedback

    -   Get professional help (coach)

-   Set up an appointment in your calendar (\<= 12 months) on which you
    want to repeat this exercise

Iterate the 5 phases again this week -\> If it works, keep doing it. If
it doesn\'t work, customize your system

**ProTip:** For this exercise, look for a place where nothing doesn\'t
bother you.

**ProTip:** Choose a time when you\'re still fit in your head.

**ProTip:** Make sure you don\'t have a follow-up date to this exercise
right away.

**ProTip:** The [OKR learning
path](https://github.com/cogneon/lernos-for-you/blob/master/lernOS%20Guide/de/lernOS-Guide-for-You-de-OKR.pdf)
is a very good help to help you develop & formulate goals.

### Continuous Improvement - The Road to Mastery (Kata)

***Duration:** 1-3 hours depending on reading speed & number of ideas*

We have already got to know and practicetwo of the three stages on the
way to the championship in the last 10 weeks. Apply ingpah & the
6-horizon model. For experts, focus, orientation & creativity are still
on the agenda. It is simply a matter of using the time freed up to
*endlessly* optimize the experience.

-   Read Chapter 15 in David Allen\'s book [\"How to Get Things
    Done\"](https://www.amazon.de/Dinge-geregelt-kriege-Selbstmanagement-Überarbeitete/dp/3492307205/ref=sr_1_1)

-   Choose 1-3 ideas from Kata 10

-   Continue to work out these ideas for concrete projects & tasks.

    -   What needs to be started now to fulfill the ideas & wishes in
        2-5 years?

    -   Discuss these ideas with people whose advice you value

    -   Build a network of new contacts that can help you achieve your
        goals

-   Stock more and more \"thinking\" to create new values

    -   Find an area you haven\'t captured in your GTD system yet

    -   Integrate these areas into your GTD routines

-   Set up an appointment in your calendar (\<= 3 months) on which you
    want to repeat this exercise

Iterate the 5 phases again this week -\> If it works, keep doing it. If
it doesn\'t work, customize your system

**ProTip:** The WOL Learning Path is the ideal support to help you build
a network of contacts that can help you achieve your goals.
